And this X are going to start to take a look at.
No J Yes.
So what's not all about.
Well up to this point in this course we've been running code exclusively inside of our browser.
In other words we created a single file we linked a javascript file to it.
Then we loaded both up inside the browser and the browser executed our javascript code.
We start to run code with no J.S. we're going to instead run code directly on our machine or a computer
without any browser being involved.
Understanding the differences between running code with no J S in the browser is easiest if we do a
direct compare and contrast.
So let's think about some the differences between running JavaScript in the browser and running javascript
with node.
So first off like we just mentioned when we'd run javascript in the browser we're adding script tags
to an H T.M. document that causes the browser to fetch that JavaScript file and execute all the code
inside of it.
When we start to make use of node however we're going to use a program called the node CLIA or command
line interface to take in a javascript file and run all the code inside when we run javascript in the
browser we get access to the DOM.
So that's all of our typical age to know stuff that we've discussed and we get access to a lot of related
objects to that such as the window object.
It's a global object that has a lot of helpful methods on it.
When we run javascript with node however there is no DOB.
So when we use node we're not trying to manipulate a dom.
We're not messing around with each e-mail or anything like that.
In the browser we can load up many different files and code in between those different files can reference
variables or functions or objects defined in other files very easily.
And that's pretty much an automatic process.
We can have one file with the reference to code that has been written inside of another file and there's
not a lot of direct setup that we have to do to make that relationship work however in node.
This is a very different system.
So if we start to have multiple different files with node we have to treat each different file as its
own separate world where its own separate kind of silo.
In other words all the different variables functions and objects we define inside of a file with no
J us are isolated to that single file and if we want to share that code with another file we have to
go through a very manual and distinct process finally when we'd run javascript in the browser.
We always include libraries by adding in script tags and do keep in mind that there are some more complicated
solutions for getting libraries included into a browser based project and we're gonna discuss those
later but right now really just thinking about including libraries through the use of script texts when
we move over to note however we get a first class package management system called NPM or the node package
manager NPM is a tool that we can use to very easily add in libraries or dependencies that we want to
use in a project.
And so when we start to make use of node we start to make use of a lot of other libraries very quickly.
And so this is where it starts to become important to understand how some other libraries work in some
common libraries in the javascript ecosystem all right before we make use of node.
We do have to make sure that it is installed on our local system.
Now it is entirely possible that you have already installed node and you might have already done it
or earlier inside this course.
You don't have to do this install if you already have node installed.
If you're not sure if you do you can change over to your terminal very quickly and run node if you see
something like this appear.
That means you have node installed but if you see something it says command node not found or something
like that.
That means that you have to go through the installation process by the way.
Once you get to this point you can exit out by pressing control see so if you got an error you need
to go through the download and set up process very quickly.
This is a really fast thing to do.
So I'll walk you through it right now.
I'm gonna copy that link and open it up inside of a new browser tab.
Once over here I'll scroll debt scroll down just a little bit and we can find the Windows Installer
Mac OS or if you are running a Linux distribution you can download the binaries right here or use a
linux package manager to download install node automatically at any rate go ahead and grab the appropriate
installer download it and run it once you install node.
You should be able to go back over to your terminal restart your terminal to make sure you restart it.
I'm not gonna show restarting my terminal but do make sure you restart yours and then tried to run node
and once again you should see something like that appear okay.
So now we've got node up and running and we've discussed some of the very small differences.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back the next video we're gonna start to play around with node and write some javascript
that's going to run outside of our browser.